INDUSTRIA BOTANICA

Tools and Acts of Cultivation 2021

“Industria Botanica” deals with the relationship between people and their environment. It is strongly about duality, as well as a feeling of being torn between two poles; of the industry with the steadily increasing technology and the wild, untouched nature. How do we relate to our environment - living and non-living, artificial and natural - and ask ourselves the question: How do we identify / classify ourselves? How do we embed ourselves?

We are surrounded by highly efficient, comfortable and watertight residential complexes, office buildings, large-scale concrete floor plans and skyhigh partition walls. We now often live comfortably isolated from nature. Natural instincts and reflexes become superfluous and remain underdeveloped and dull in the urban setting. The untouched “primitive” nature is more of an exception for us today and is becoming a distant, almost surreal idyll. This environment is dominated by capitalism and the philosophy of excessive consumption. There is not only a feeling of alienation towards nature, but also an interpersonal isolation, which shapes the lifestyle in urban metropolises. The omnipresence of the screens and the trivial virtual “hyperconnectivity” make us feel lonely. The iPhone, a smooth window without any haptic feedback, functions and is establishing itself as a “multi-tool”. We are supposedly “connected” but less and less really “close”. We feel “out of touch”. This becomes an overwhelming feeling of powerlessness in the face of an overload of content, the overwhelming feeling of simultaneity and diffusion in communication. “The digital is like Quicksand - everything sticks”. We sink in and irreversibly merge. Technology and digital media often feel indispensable, intuitive and strangely “natural”. They are already firmly integrated in many areas of everyday life. They are part of our “survival kit”.
take shape in relation to the human body.

What is a modern way of living? We are guided by the archetype of the “modern gardener”. A role that cultivates a “space” and tries to generate a fertile environment in close cooperation. He dares to step outside, lives in dialogue with the landscape and dissolves or breaks down the barrier between nature and fellow human beings, overcomes them. The objective becomes the catalyst. It almost becomes a tool that “includes” a valuable plot, action or interaction. The representational becomes the trigger to engage and cultivate a relationship.

1.0 SPOUT

We are curious about items that become carrier of aspirational qualities. In this specific exhibition context we share the prototype of the „Spout“ as the first of a continuous line of identity markers.

The „Spout“ is a decorative tool that clearly interprets the body as a sensual and integral part of the environment. Our intent is to disregard human categorization (gender classification, sizing, etc.) and then to radically equate the human body with the environment.
People mark their self-image with luxury tools, they decorate and stage themselves and their surroundings with them. They unfold, develop and rediscover themselves and their forms of expressions in this role. He continues to treat the environment with the same importance and attention as the personal self. In this first piece we explore the semantic and formal potential of watering cans (cultivating land) and decanters (cultvating body), as an object that revolves/ forms around water as the shared essence of land and body. Highlighting the interdependence and interpenetration of body and environment.

The semantic and „active“ qualities are complemented by formal and methodical experiment with 3d scan / modelling and 3D print.

Through the digital lense we explore a “novel approach to nature”. In a process of “digital plant picking” we collect / pick up organic states in the Botanical Garden Basel. In collaboration with industrial designer Martin Siegrist, we had the chance to digitally scan selected plants. Without taking away anything from nature, we were able to get up close and indulge in nature. Digitally captured, we can now process this data infinitely and relate it to the human body through scaling, multiplying, morphing. “Digital plant picking” is followed by “industrial de-plugging”. We source and scan car parts, tires, front lights, windshields - cars are deconstructed in their ideal/role as former luxury/status symbol. The elements are decoupled from the road and the obsession with ego and speed and rearranged / re-collaged into new identity markers - into an updated status symbol.

The piece as an extension of ourselves represents/ symbolizes integrity and the human instinct / impulse to take care. The nourishing act / plot of „watering“ attached to it gets redesicovered - the Tool gets introduced as an avant garde accessoiry within the fashion context.

The piece is paired with a glass of infused water covered by a dried leaf.

ABOUT

[nu] - new [lux] - unit of illuminance Fashion Research

Fashion is perceived as a luxury industry and is currently strongly characterized by overproduction, “waste” and short-lived hype. However, we are fascinated by fashion and luxury as a particularly dynamic “layer of culture”. We embrace Luxury as a meaningful conversation - “A conversation about a shared set of aspirations and values”.

Clothes and object are identity markers. They manifest a personal attitude and are a testimony of time. Through the conscious selection of a personal material universe, the person takes a position.

We wonder: What are the responsibilities of fashion as part of our material culture today?

By “new lux” we mean an experimental and exploratory approach to what material “fashion” can express and contribute (to a sustainable future) today. “New lux“ is the very personal search that subordinates itself to our current perspective on the world and responds to norms and approaches in today’s fashion world. In particular, it is about the conscious investigation of the shaping of values / ideals and the clear break with previous value concepts. For us, fashion functions as an artistic expression that is initially decoupled from commerce. One motivation here is to look beyond known product categories and to take a holistic interdisciplinary approach. For us Conception, shaping, method and communication resp. staging are inevitably intertwined. To take a fresh position in favour of sustainability, we believe Switzerland offers an exciting base.
